Add API reference template and guide (#252)
thegooddocsproject/templates: api-reference/v2/api-reference-guide.md

# API reference guide

This `api-reference-guide` document provides extra writing tips describing **HOW** to fill in each of the sections within the [`api-reference-template`](api-reference-template.md) file.

> - _Document version_: 0.0.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _Document version_: 0.1
```
Per MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH [semantic versioning conventions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gPr_OHoUkg5Wjj3UWYX78ORtTBArSJck4mWrKhWpfPA/edit#heading=h.2diphzcmjler), this would be a 0.1 version. (Or maybe 0.2 by the time you incorporate first round feedback).

- _Last updated_: June 27, 2022

## Overview

> API references are technical manuals that provide the specifications and integration instructions of APIs. An accurate, concise, well-structured API documentation facilitates the adoption of APIs and increases the overall user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API references are technical manuals that provide API specifications and integration instructions to help developers use your product. Accurate, concise, well-structured API documentation facilitates efficient adoption of APIs and increases the overall user experience.
```
* Question: Can we assume that all users of APIs are developers? I'm thinking it would be helpful to define the user audience.
* Suggestion: Probably don't have "A ... documentation", it would be "A .. documentation set" or "Documentation .."

The [`api-reference-template`](api-reference-template.md) is designed to help you build the API documentation efficiently and keep it consistent in both format and appearance.

## Before writing the API references

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion: Its not clear whether these bullet steps MUST be followed, or SHOULD be followed. Maybe reframe the title and provide an introductory text:

## Before you start

You will likely find that you write better if you do some preparation before starting to write:

> - Familiarize yourself with the API protocol. If possible, try making some API calls in a testing environment. This API reference template works best with the REST API protocol. If you are working with other protocols, you may need to adjust the organization of some sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Familiarize yourself with the API protocol. If possible, try making some API calls in a testing environment.
- If needed, adjust these instructions to align with your API's protocol. This API reference template works best with the [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) API protocol. If you are working with other protocols, you may need to adjust the organization of some sections.
```
* Suggestion: I feel the description of protocols deserves its own bullet, and should be framed as an action.
* Suggestion: We probably shouldn't assume the reader knows what REST is, so should hyperlink out to a definition. You might have a better suggestion for a more authoritative, or easier to read reference source.

> - Familiarize yourself with the API protocol. If possible, try making some API calls in a testing environment. This API reference template works best with the REST API protocol. If you are working with other protocols, you may need to adjust the organization of some sections.

Reviewer 2: Hi. I am reading this information for the first time.
I think you could break up some of the sentences in the `Before you start` section and possibly create a separate section for testing the API? What tools or clients could you use to test the API and help you document the endpoints? 
Do you recommend that authors should read and understand the API specification (and components of the API specification)?

Author: Hi Karen, thanks for the comment! The idea sounds good but at this point, we are not focussing on providing links to learn API documentation. Maybe we will put some references in the deep dive document that we are working on

> Hi. I am reading this information for the first time. I think you could break up some of the sentences in the `Before you start` section and possibly create a separate section for testing the API? What tools or clients could you use to test the API and help you document the endpoints? Do you recommend that authors should read and understand the API specification (and components of the API specification)?

- Interact with your API developers to learn about the APIs that you are documenting. Understand the data models and the logical connections between the API endpoints.
- Discuss the logic of grouping the API endpoints. Although grouping the endpoints by resource type is a common practice, as used in this template, it is also possible to group them by use case or other characteristics that better suit the user's needs.
- Conduct some user research about how the audience of your documentation would use the APIs. Identify the programming languages that your audience would most likely adopt to interact with your APIs.
- Explore the possibility of auto-generating the API references.
- Optimize the visual presentation of the API references by applying customized stylesheet, such as using syntax highlighting, table of contents, multi-column layout, etc.

> ## Document structure

Reviewer: Thought:  I'm wondering it would be better to move each of the bullet descriptions into this "Document structure" section to the relevant sections below. We could then remove this "document structure" section.
My reasoning is that the user is likely jump directly from a <title> in the template the corresponding "About <title> section" in the guide, potentially missing the "Document structure" section.

Author: We kept the section but only left the section names in the bullet list to give an overview, and moved the bullet description into the corresponding section below. 
Also added suggestions about how to organize the sections in real-life scenario

> Assuming that your API documentation set includes references of many API endpoints that are organized into groups, this template includes three parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template assumes that your API documentation set includes references for many API endpoints, that are organized into groups. The template includes three parts:
```
* Suggest attributing where the assumption is coming from (using active voice). Ref: https://developers.google.com/style/voice
* I've suggested "this template" as used below. Another option could be "this guide".

> - The [API reference overview section](#about-the-api-reference-overview-section) provides reference information for the whole API documentation set. It describes product-wise API specifications, such as protocol, authorization method, versioning, status code, etc.

Reviewer 2: nit: You could remove `etc.`
I think you are describing the common fields in the API specification which apply to the entire API:

The Overview section in the API reference describes the API components [fields] which apply to the entire API [or all endpoints in the API].

> - The [API resource reference section](#about-the-api-resource-reference-section) provides reference information for a subset of API endpoints that are grouped around a resource type. It describes resource-wise API specifications, such as the data model of the resource.

Reviewer 2: data model or schema of the resource type?
nit: Can you replace 'It' with a more descriptive phrase
nit: What are resource-wise API specifications?

Author: We kept "data model" here to keep it consistent with the section name in the template, but moved the term "resource-wise"

- The [API endpoint reference section](#about-the-api-endpoint-reference-section)
 provides reference information for a specific API endpoint. It describes the specifications of an API endpoint, such as the method, URL, request, and response schema.

> ## About the API reference overview section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About the "API reference overview" section
```

> 

Reviewer: * Suggest these top level headings include content from the "Document stucture" section

> ### "Introduction" section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### About the "Introduction" section
```
* Suggestion: For consistancy with the tutorial and other templates, we should follow the convention of
About the "<title>" section

Reviewer: This comment applies to the following heading too.

**Tips**:

- This section should only describe the technical specifications of the API authorization, such as parameters and token expiration. Details of how to authenticate should be documented in a separate how-to guide and be referred to as a link here.
- Provide an example of the authorization request or command. You can use random strings to replace the actual secrets.
- If there is more than one authorization type applicable to your APIs, describe and specify the use case of each. If one of the options is preferred, highlight it.
- If different permission levels apply to different API endpoints, document the requirements in the reference for that endpoint.

### "Versioning" section

This section is optional. If applicable, use this section to describe the versioning, compatibility, and lifecycle policies of your API set. If migration guides are available, provide the links here.

### "Pagination" section

This section is optional. If applicable, use this section to describe the options and default values for dividing long API responses into pages.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note: Your readers might not understand what "pagination" is, so it is wise to embed the concept's explanation in the descriptive text. 
```

### "Rate limiting and throttling" section

> This section is optional. If applicable, use this section to describe the global rate limiting settings and quota of your APIs. If different quota applies to different endpoints, also add this section in the reference for endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is optional. If applicable, use this section to describe the global rate limiting settings and quota of your APIs. If different quotas apply to different endpoints, also add this section in the reference for endpoints.
```
Suggestion: Seems to be a mismatch here.

### "Status code" section

**Tips**:

- For REST APIs, HTTP status codes are used. If you are writing references for other protocols, adjust the table columns.
- In the `Description` column, describe the causes of that error, and provide related information or links about how to deal with the error.

### Additional sections

> If other specifications are applicable to the whole API set, such as data conventions, request retry logic, logging, monitoring, and so on, define your own sections at the end of this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If other specifications are applicable to the whole API set, such as data conventions, request retry logic, logging, monitoring, and so on, define your own sections here.
```
Question: Should additional sections mentioned be placed here, rather than at then end of this document?

> If other specifications are applicable to the whole API set, such as data conventions, request retry logic, logging, monitoring, and so on, define your own sections at the end of this document.

Reviewer 2: nit: remove `and so on`

## About the API resource reference section

The template assumes that the API endpoints are grouped by the resource type that they are interacting with.

**Title**

> Substitute the document title `{Resource Name}` with the actual name.

Reviewer: Question: Are there any best practices we can recommend regarding picking a good resource name? (Acknowledging that the resource name might have already been locked in before the tech writer has been consulted.)

Author: added an external link at the end of this guide as "additional resources"

- **Attribute**: the field name or property name defined by the resource
- **Type**: data type of the value
- **Required/Optional**: whether the attribute is a required field or not. Use a distinctive font to highlight the required attributes. In this template, capitalized letters are used.
- **Description**: additional information such as whether the attribute has default values, validation restrictions, and whether it is a non-editable field that cannot be updated with POST requests.

If a cell is empty, fill in “N/A”.

### "Example" section

Provide a concrete example of the data entity with valid values. Fill in as many optional attributes as possible.

Use fenced code blocks (a pair of three backticks `` ``` ``) to make your code distinctive from other text blocks.

Many Markdown processors also support syntax highlighting, which adds color to keywords. Indicate the language mode of your example after the opening backticks to take advantage of this feature. For example: `` ```json ``. The displayed color schema depends on your processor and the rendering configurations.

### "Endpoints" section

List the endpoints that can interact with this resource type in the table:

> - Capitalize the method names.

Reviewer: Question: Why do we state that method names are to be capitalized? I would have thought that the method names should follow the same case conventions as the code?

Author: Here, the "method name" refers to the  "GET" "POST" keywords, which are used in the capitalized format by convention, but the endpoint name may use sentence heading. Added an example to avoid confusion.

> - Capitalize the method names.

Reviewer: This non-ambiguous guidance "Capitalize the method names" implies that this guidance MUST be followed. Is that our intent?
I expect that most of our suggestions are recommendations, and as such we should soften the statement, typically using words such as "should", such as:
* The method names should be capitalized.

This comment is applicable for other statements below as well.

Author: Changed the leading sentence to show that the bullet list is about recommendations

> - Adopt a consistent naming convention for the APIs. In most cases, the naming convention used in the documentation is consistent with the one in the source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adopt a consistent naming convention for the APIs. In most cases, the naming convention used in the documentation should be consistent with the one in the source code.
```

- Add a link to each of the endpoint names that directs users to the corresponding endpoint reference.

> - For endpoints that are deprecated but still in use, add a note in the “Description” column. Consider using the strikethrough format (a pair of two tildes `~~`) to indicate the deprecation status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For endpoints that are deprecated but still in use, add a note in the “Description” column. Consider using the strikethrough format to indicate the deprecation status.
```
* Issue: To date, guideance in our templates has been agnostic of the markup for markup format we use. (A future goal is to convert these templates from markdown to other formats, such as AsciiDoc)

Author: also removed other occurrences of sample format

## About the API endpoint reference section

**Title**

Substitute the document title `{Endpoint Name}` with the actual name.

**Tips**:

> - Typically the name of an API endpoint consists of the operation type and the resource type. For example, an API endpoint that creates a User resource can be named as `Create user`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Typically the name of an API endpoint consists of the operation type and the resource type. For example, an API endpoint that creates a User resource can be named `Create user`.
```

- As in the API resource reference, the naming convention should be consistent throughout your API documentation.
- Use the singular form of the resource name unless the endpoint is designed exclusively for a bulk operation, such as `List users`.

**Short description**

Provide a one-line description of what the API does. Starts with a verb. For example:

> - For "get" operations: `Returns a {resource}.`

Reviewer 2: Find a {resource}
List the {resources}

Author: Updated to use `Retrieves a {resource}` and `Lists {resources}`

### "Authorization" section

Provide a link to the common `Authorization` section in the API reference overview.

If calling the endpoint requires additional user roles or permissions, document them in this section.

### "Request schema" section

Use this section to define the specifications of the endpoint.

Each of the sub-sections is optional and should be adopted according to the actual endpoint definition:

- **Path parameters**: parameters defined within the path of the endpoint, denoted by placeholders.
- **Query parameters**: appended to the end of the request URL, after a question mark `?`. Parameters and their assigned values are connected by an equal sign `=`. Multiple query parameters are delimited by an and sign `&`.
- **Header parameters**: often the same across endpoints in an API set. Include this section only when specific header parameters are required for this endpoint.
- **Request body**: only applicable for requests using methods that permit a payload, such as POST, PUT, and PATCH. Include a link to the description of the resource type if applicable.

> If no parameters or request body can be sent in the request, specify "None" in this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no request parameters or request body are supported, specify "None" in this section.
```

**Tips**:

- In each of the tables, keep the parameter name the same as what is presented in the endpoint section above.

> - In the `Required/Optional` column, specify "REQUIRED" or "Optional" to avoid ambiguity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the `Required/Optional` column, specify "Required" or "Optional" to avoid ambiguity.
```
Question: Is there an established convention that we are following to use capitalization for REQUIRED? If not, I'd err toward using lower case "Required".

- In the `Type` column, if the data type has detailed definitions in another place, provide the link. 

> - In the `Description` column, start the description with a noun and omit the articles (the/a/an). No need to write "defines/specifies". If applicable, provide additional information such as default values, minimum/maximum values, usage restrictions, and valid enum values.

Reviewer: * Suggestion: We probably shouldn't assume the reader (a software developer) has a good understanding of what a "noun" is, so this description should be followed by an example or two to cover the scenarios covered here.

> - In the `Description` column, start the description with a noun and omit the articles (the/a/an). No need to write "defines/specifies". If applicable, provide additional information such as default values, minimum/maximum values, usage restrictions, and valid enum values.

Reviewer: Question: Are there conventions about how default values, minimum/maximum values, usage restrictions, and valid enum values are presented? We likely should provide such guideance here.

Author: Changed the additional information into sub-list, and provided example for each of the cases.

> - Do not leave cells empty in the table. If there is no content, fill in with “N/A”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not leave cells empty in the table. If there is no content, fill with “N/A” (short for "not applicable").
```

### "Request example" section

Use this section to provide an example that is complete and correct. The request should include the base URL, endpoint, headers, parameters, and request body. It should show as many parameter configurations as possible. Preferable, the example could be copy-pasted directly into your user's environment and return the expected result.

**Tips**:

- If you have several parameters for different use cases, especially when then parameters can not be used together, consider providing multiple request examples.
- The recommended format for your example is `cURL` request. Depending on the business needs, you can add request samples in multiple programming languages, which can be generated by external tools. Do user research in advance to determine what languages should be adopted. Meanwhile, you should also consider the additional maintenance effort when you add more examples.
- Match the sample request and parameters to the exact response the user would receive with those same parameters.
- Use fenced code blocks (a pair of three backticks ```` ``` ````) to make your code distinctive from other text blocks.

### "Response schema" section

> Use this section to describe the content type and data model that are returned in the response, in both successful and failed cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this section to describe the content type and data model that is returned in the response, in both successful and failed cases:
```
